{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green25\blue25;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12941\c12941\c12941;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The submission "Simulating High-Dimensional Multivariate Data using the\
Bigsimr Package" presents the Julia package Bigsimr for simulating\
high-dimensional multivariate data with a target correlation and arbitrary\
marginal distributions via Gaussian copula. Also wrapper packages for\
Python and R provided which call the Julia package.\
\
The main contribution seems in developing the algorithm and providing a\
software implementation. The current manuscript does not describe the\
algorithm detailed enough to understand what is implemented. For JSS it is\
important that the implementation is clearly described including how\
optimization problems etc. are solved in detail. Such a description could\
also point to alternatives which would be possible, e.g., considering a\
different copula than the Gaussian or using a different optimization\
methods to find the nearest correlation matrix. The software implementation\
should reflect such a modular structure and eventually allow easily\
extension to cover this alternatives.\'a0 In addition it is usually helpful to\
understand the structure of the package by explicitly discussing the design\
and the main functions indicating a specific workflow for the user to\
understand how to proceed but also guide the reviewers in their software\
review.\
\
We feel that the current manuscript does not present the contribution well\
to meet the aims and scope of JSS and the expectation of JSS's target\
audience interested in statistical software in general and its application.\
Some more algorithmic detailed would certainly be of interest to many JSS\
readers and also the software should be presented in a way to ease review.\
Also the software should be implemented in a modular way such that possible\
extensions and generalizations can easily be incorporated. We decided not\
to send this submission into full review but would ask the authors to\
improve their submission first in order to increase their chances for\
successful publication in JSS.\
\
Specific comments:\
\
o The main package is implemented in Julia. It would thus seem preferable\
to demonstrate the use of the Julia package in the manuscript which would\
seem the natural environment. Replication material to reproduce these\
results also using the Python and R interfaces can also be provided as\
supplementary material.\
\
o The supplementary material needs to be structured in a different way:\
\
(a) The source packages need to be provided in the packaged version and not\
clones of the github repositories with many additional but unnecessary files.\
\
(b) If the manuscript is changed to demonstrate the Julia package,\
presumable two Julia scripts should be provided: one containing the code\
for all sections in the manuscript which might use some saved results of\
the Monte Carlo evaluations and a second one generating and saving these\
results.\
\
o The R package mvtnorm is not included in the discussion of related\
packages, but only MASS. A closer look at\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cran.r-project.org/view=Distributions"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://CRAN.R-project.org/view=Distributions}}\
\
might be helpful to identify available functionality in R. E.g., it might\
also be interesting to consider sparse variants.\
\
o Maybe deleting the letter to CSDA from the github repository would be\
good to avoid confusion.}